---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Life of a Software Engineering Student: Surviving the First Hurdles of Athletic Software Engineering
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-01-16
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Reflection
---

REMEMBER TO CHANGE THE ESSAY TITLE AND THE FILENAME!!!

So. What do you think about Javascript so far? 
If you’re a complete newbie, how does it compare to other programming languages that you know? 
If you have prior experience, did you learn new things from this module, perhaps with respect to ES6? 
Do you think Javascript is a good or bad programming language from a software engineering perspective?

What about athletic software engineering? 
Did you find the practice WODs to be useful? 
What do you think about this style of learning? 
Is it stressful? 
Is it enjoyable? 
Do you think it will work for you?

So I'm writing about my software engineering course, perhaps for those of you who are interested in a career related to 
computer science.

I don't know what sort of classroom innovations you are experiencing (if you are), but in this course I'm experiencing something new to 
me: something my instructor(s) call athletic software engineering.

If you've never sat in a typical college lecture (or at least, what I would consider typical), all we would do for the most part is 
come to class, sit, take notes on the lecture, and just leave after the lecture is over.  There would be roughly one or two midterms 
and then a final in class.  Everything else outside of class is just 
assigned readings (sometimes from an online source, not just textbooks if that helps a little), problem sets, and reading solutions to 
exams and problem sets.  

But note that every professor seems to teach in a way that's 
completely different in a way such that there really isn't consensus, agreement, or syncronization between them all, which I 
personally did not expect.  I thought the professors would all think and teach roughly the same way, but they differed and varied 
more than I had expected.  Maybe it's the opposite for you, you expected them to be more varied.  I don't know.

Maybe there are some people who find this work easy and/or entertaining, but for me the work (pertaining to the courses, at least) 
is typically dry and difficult.

So there's the typical software engineering (pedagogy) for you, now how about this athletic software engineering?

Athletic software engineering is different in that instead of spending class time taking notes on lectures, lectures 
are handled for the most part on a Morea website (Morea actually stands for modules, outcomes, readings, 
experiences, and... activities?  I can't seem to find what the A stands for, oh well).  This leaves time in class for these 
workouts of the day, or WODs for short.

If you're new to WODs, they are timed exercises where we are tasked to finish a certain programming feat before time runs out.  
If it's a solo practice WOD, you self time it.  That's it.  Simple, right?

So far we've had two online practice WODs, one in-class practice group WOD (say that five times fast), and one real solo WOD.  
They're introductory and yet for the real WOD I barely made time with only 20 seconds of the 15 minutes left on the clock.

I'll post my data for the WODs below.


